So you want to know how this all got started?

Well, Keith Messing and Mark Galassi each decided to attend
SUNY at Stony Brook in the fall of 1987.  Keith was a first semester
undergraduate of electrical engineering, and Mark was a first semester
graduate student of the Institute for Theoretical Physics (ITP).

It must have been fate (kismet, etc) that brought them together in
Physics 101, section 13 (a lucky number, no doubt).  This was the
Introduction to Classical Physics (a requirement for e.e. majors)
that had its disgustingly boring lab section on Thursday nights.

Mark, was the instructor of that Thursday night lab section.  He
was interesting/weird, yet very friendly all at the same time...
Just the kind a guy you would want to get to know.
Well one week, Keith was way behind in his work (truly uncharacteristic
behavior) and he was not going to be able to submit his lab report
on time.  He timidly approached Mark, and asked for an extension.
Mark obliged, and yet expressed a concern for what seemed like
a terrible lack of motivation on Keith's part.

On that day, and after an extensive conversation, their friendship was
born.  In no time, Mark showed Keith around the ITP and introduced
him to all these great computers that they had.

Then there was this game.

It was called Conquer.

Mark had put "his nation" on the screen for him to see, but all Keith could
see were a bunch of characters... letters and dashes and squiggles all over
the place, and none of it really made any sense.... but
by the way Mark talked about it, it fascinated him!

Keith was interested, although he didn't know why.  Mark offered to add him
to the game, and therefore also give him an account on the machine.
As a freshman, he had never dreamed of having access to these machines,
or knowing the super-user of them personally.

He watched as Mark became the superuser and added his account.
HE ACTUALLY GOT TO CHOOSE my login name.  Wow!!!!
For lack of any other creative name, he asked for 'keith'.
Soon after, Mark created Keith's nation to be added to the conquer
world.

He played nation "The_Bronx", and his leader was Randolph.....

Little did he realize that he was playing Conquer version 2.
Little did he realize that this incident would come back to haunt
him two years later.

==================

Two years later....

It was late in the fall of 1989.  Mark and Keith are still friends,
although they don't often find much time to spend together.
At some point late in the fall, Keith approached Mark with the idea
of porting the latest version of Conquer and playing it campus wide
on the new HP system.

Mark enthusiastically supported his idea, and said they would do it.

Thus began the adventure and trauma.  There was FIRST_EARTH,
the first attempt at playing the game.  This featured nations like
Rochelle, Belegost, Theorland, Nightmare, Avalon, and many more....
Avalon had two consecutive peasant revolts!!!  And then the world
crashed, because some evil High School student wanted to be added to the
game.  UGH!
Meanwhile, Avalon, had gone wimpering off to start his own game....
This became known as SECOND_EARTH.  But Dave Buksbaum learned little
from the tragedy of FIRST_EARTH.  He did not back up his world, and it
too crashed!

THEN THERE WAS THIRD EARTH!

We all know it well. The personalities that were there in that dimension
will long be remembered.  Ender of Skighton, Lapu-Lapu of Pilipinas,
Mattingly of Rochelle, Jubel of Uruz, Durin of Belegost, Geiserich of
Pthor, and Antryg Windrose of Nimiria were all dominating forces.
What a glorious world it was........

But meanwhile, back in reality, Mark and Keith, now joined by a host
of other awesome dudes, were getting really fed up with the crippling
nature of all the bugs in Conquer.

- There was Alan and Mike that had a "groo" and a "brok" for no apparent
  reason.
- There was Mark and Jon that lost 200000 talons for breaking treaties
  that the computer forced them to break.
- There was the turn that the trade board exploded and everyone
  got everybody elses commodities....
- Oh, and don't forget the NOMADS that appeared in Tim's nation out
  of  nowhere...
- Not to mention that the conquer world was flat and was a quadragon.
- Selling sectors, and getting all the people on them even of a different
  race.
- Jungles, next to deserts, next to tundra.
- Some nations had many leaders born, some had none.
- Relocating people that don't exist.
- And what did terror, popularity, and poverty really do?
- Who would want to spend hundreds of thousands of jewels just to
  suddenly be able to draft Cavalry from your population?
- Who wanted Mercs that always ran away?

And hundreds of other inconsistencies, annoyances and flat out BUGS,
that drove all who played crazy!

Mark was most fed up of all!  He knew that we could do something about
this.  He knew that we did not have to stand by and watch as poor
innocent hackers and gamers got ulcers as they had to deal with someone's
"first C program!"

It was Mark who inspired us, united us under a common goal:
How can we rewrite Conquer?

SBW WAS BORN!

